# Licenta
Today, the demand for products uncontaminated by various chemicals is growing. People often prefer to pay more for clean products. This makes it necessary to develop greenhouse automation projects. In this paper, such a greenhouse has been built from scratch and its main processes have been automated. Using well-documented and affordable components, a mini-greenhouse has been created whose ultimate goal is to grow plants in a controlled environment. In order to minimize the effort and time spent by humans in growing plants, the basic processes in the growth and development of plants have been automated: irrigation, aeration and shading. Using two Arduino Uno boards, which communicate with each other via the I2C transmission protocol, sensors and actuators, the three systems were developed. The following components were used to develop the irrigation system: a water pump, a relay to activate the pump and a sensor to measure the soil moisture level. In the case of the aeration system, it was necessary to use a motor to run the greenhouse side sheet and a sensor to measure the humidity and air temperature. The same principle was used for the shading system as for the ventilation system, the difference being the use of a sensor to measure the light intensity level. All these components were connected to the two development boards. Using an LCD shield with buttons, the user can activate or deactivate the three systems, view the data received from the sensors or activate the automatic mode which, depending on the values acquired using the sensors, activates or deactivates the systems.
